Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin, and we're going to be providing
the evidence for why the 4year cycle is
not dead. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and also
check out the sale on Into the
Cryptoverse Premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, over the
last year or so, there's been a lot of
discussion as to why people think that
the 4-year cycle is dead. Some of the
reasons include the ETFs, obviously, at
one point it was talk about a strategic
Bitcoin reserve, companies buying
Bitcoin, etc. And so, a lot of people
have taken that to believe that the
4-year cycle was broken. But I'd like to
provide the evidence for why it actually
hasn't broken and also refute some of
the main points that people provide for
why it why it will fail this time by
looking at data but not for Bitcoin but
for the S&P 500 going back in other
cycles. Okay. So, the idea behind the
four-year cycle for Bitcoin is that
there's this cycle that exists where
Bitcoin finds a low approximately every
four years. You'll find a low near the
end of 2014.
Technically, it was the very beginning
of 2015, but more or less the end of
2014, the end of 2018, the end of 2022.
And I've I've speculated for a while now
that the next low would probably be near
the end of 2026. Okay, so we've talked
about that a lot and who knows exactly
where the low would be, but it's not
really a price. It's more so a time
that's important. It's a time that you
have to look at in terms of the four-ear
cycle. The four-year cycle does not
predict where the price will be. It
predicts when the price will likely
bottom. Now, the 4-year cycle is not
really about TOPS, but Bitcoin has
operated under a fairly similar
four-year cycle with TOPS as well. And
so far, it has been right translated
cycles. Now, in every cycle, you could
have a left translated cycle or you
could have a right translated cycle. A
left translated cycle would mean that
Bitcoin would top out sooner than it
normally does and then spend more than
one year going down. But throughout all
of Bitcoin's history, it has topped in
the fourth quarter of the post having
year. You'll see it very clearly. the
fourth quarter of 2013, the fourth
quarter of 2017, and of course the
fourth quarter of 2021, and most
recently the fourth quarter of 2025. And
again, the lows generally Q4 of 2014,
though technically you could argue it
was Q1 of 2025, Q4 of 2018,
Q4 of 2022, and what we're speculating
is Q4 of 2026. Okay? So, you should know
though that when we talk about the
four-year cycle, we're not actually
referring to the highs. In fact, had
Bitcoin topped in say late 2024,
it could have still had a four-year
cycle where the low still occurs near
the end of the midterm year. Now, one of
the most popular
things that people do in in crypto and
all markets is they they search for
narratives to explain price action. And
one of the narratives that I think a lot
of people were hopeful for last year was
that because of the ETFs and because of
Micro Strategy buying Bitcoin and
because of a potential strategic Bitcoin
reserve that the 4-year cycle would
break and that we wouldn't actually top
out and go into a bare market. Now, on
this channel, we said, look, we likely
will have a toin Q4 and then we're
likely going to see Bitcoin bleed going
into at least the first half of the
midterm year, and my guess is it'll
extend into the second half as well. So,
what I want to do is
talk about some of the main criticisms.
One of the main criticisms of why the
four-year cycle will fail is because
Bitcoin this cycle topped on apathy
rather than euphoria. Okay. Now, this is
something that we flagged years ago. For
years, we have stated that the bull
market that Bitcoin has been in was
actually a lot more similar to the 2019
bull market where Bitcoin topped two
months before quantitative tightening
ended, just like it did this cycle. The
main difference between this cycle and
the 2019 top is that this top happened
to correspond at a 4-year cycle top
where the 2019 top was more of a
midcycle top. Now, you could argue that
maybe this was a midcycle top, but even
in that case, it just coincidentally
happens to line up that the
postappathetic top digestion phase
happens to line up in 2019 happens to
just line up with 2026, which is a
midterm year, which historically is a
bearish year for crypto. Okay. So I
would say this, all the narratives that
were given last year as to why we
wouldn't go into a bare market, they all
failed and Bitcoin actually went into a
bare market anyways.
Nothing is different this time with the
exception that Bitcoin topped on apathy
rather than euphoria.
But just because an asset tops on apathy
rather than euphoria does not mean that
it can't enter into a bare market
regardless. If you look at the S&P 500
right now it's still putting in new
all-time highs and the cycle goes on. If
you go back to many decades ago and you
look at the S&P 500 you'll notice the
four-year cycle pattern also intact
where lows in the market occurred
approximately every four years. 1962,
1966, 1970, 1974,
um, 1978, 1982. So, you can see the lows
occurred approximately every four years,
but the highs did not always occur
approximately every four years.
Sometimes the bare market was only about
a year,
like from late 1965 into October of
1966.
But there are examples where you only
had a 2-year bull market followed by a
2-year bare market. And what you'll
notice is that when you look at the high
that was set by the S&P 500 in 1966, it
was about 93.
The next high that occurred a couple of
years later, or sorry, this was 1965.
The next one late 1968
was not that much higher than the prior
high, right? right? It was only about
15% higher. And then the high that came
a few years after that was only about 11
or 12% higher. And in both cases, you
still had a 2-year bare market. You had
a left translated cycle and you had a
2-year bare market. Now, the first one
was a one-year bare market, and then the
next two were two-year bare markets.
Both of them theoretically topped on
apathy, right? I mean, I can't imagine
going 12% above a high from 3 years
earlier would have been classified as a
euphoric top. If you bought the S&P in
1965,
by 1973,
8 years later, you were only up 28%, but
yet the market still sold off 50% into a
bare market. So, one of the reasons why
I would say that the four-year cycle is
still alive is that topping on apathy
doesn't mean you don't have a bare
market because you can see how in the
past the stock market topped on apathy
arguably and it still had a bare market.
So, I think that's a major point in
favor of the 4-year cycle. Now, let's
suppose you don't want to measure this
from the low, but instead you want to
look at the actual entire cycle, like
from the low to the high instead of low
to low. If you go from the low to the
high, what you'll see is that Bitcoin
actually topped when it always does in
terms of time. You could even take a bar
pattern from the low we had in 2015 and
then overlay it to the last cycle and
see how the tops line up in time almost
to within a week of each other. You
could also
look at it from the 2018 bottom and see
the same thing that if you actually
overlay these bull markets, they topped
all around the same time. And so there's
a chart that looks at this. It's this
one. This one does it a little bit more
precisely. You can see that the last two
cycles topped on day 1,059
and 168. And yet the current cycle
topped on day 1 162. So Bitcoin topped
within one week of when it historically
tops
despite the narratives for calling the
four-year cycle dead.
If you extend it out to the next low, it
would suggest that there is still some
bare market ahead of us.
That doesn't mean that Bitcoin has to go
to $10,000. I'm not saying that. I'm
just saying that in terms of a timebased
capitulation component, I would expect a
another sell-off by Bitcoin as we get,
you know, as we continue on through the
year. Now, other people have speculated
that the reason why the four-year cycle
is broken is because the current rally
is actually different than all the
rallies we had in prior bare markets.
And I would push back on that as well.
When you're living through a bare market
rally, it always feels different than
prior bare market rallies and prior
cycles because it's hard to sort of
confront the emotions that come with it,
especially if you didn't buy it, right?
So, if you didn't buy Bitcoin at 60K and
you just sat in cash, then you might
experience that FOMO. But if you did buy
Bitcoin at 60K, then obviously you're
all bowled up. You're ready to go.
You're ready for the super cycle. The
problem is that when you look at this
objectively, this rally by Bitcoin is
actually one of the weaker rallies that
Bitcoin has had in midterm years. If you
look at the one we had last cycle,
Bitcoin actually rallied about 46% off
the low. The current rally off the low
is only about a 35 to 36% rally. So, the
rally we had in 2022 was actually much
more impressive. Now, if the argument is
we've never had, you know, it's never
looked quite like this, look at how
similar they are. Look at 2022. You'll
see we had a 52% drop. This cycle before
the current rally also a 52% drop. After
we had
that, right, Bitcoin came up, it came
back down, and then it went up even
higher. It's the same pattern, right?
It's the same pattern. And this is not
just something we saw in 2022. We saw
some similarities as well in 2018. A
little some differences. I will give you
that. But in the sense of you had a low
in February of 2018 just like you had a
low in February of 2026. You then set a
higher low in April of 2018 just like we
set a higher low in late March or April
of 2026.
The high was then set in early May of
2018, just like we set a high in early
May of 2026. So for me, I remember
vividly the bare market rally we had in
2022 and I remember vividly the bare
market rally we had in 2018. Okay? And
when that happened, it felt different,
right? And by the way, in 2018, the
support level was around $6,000,
about onetenth of the current price. You
know, in fact, the higher low in late
April or sorry, late March, early April
of 2018 was around 6,500. In 2026, it
was around 65,000.
So, what's interesting is just how
similar it actually is. In 2014, you
will also find very convincing rallies
by Bitcoin where we even got above the
bull market support band for a couple of
months. Yet, it still did not mean that
the four-year cycle wouldn't ultimately
play out or or begin, I guess, back
then.
So, the other argument is that it's
never gone on this long, right? that
we've not had bare market rallies that
lasted this long before and that's why
the four-year cycle is broken. And if
you look at kind of how long this one's
been going on for is about 16 weeks now.
That includes the fact that we just
dropped for 2 weeks and now we're in a
third week after that drop. That's 16
weeks. But the point is we haven't put
in a new low in 16 weeks. If you look
though in 2022, you'll see it took 21
weeks from June of 2022 to then put in a
new low. From the low that Bitcoin put
in in um in January, it didn't take as
long. It only took about 15 weeks. We're
only one week past that, right? So, it's
not that different in my opinion. If you
look at 2018 from the February low, it
took 19 weeks to put in a new low. From
that low, it then took 21 weeks. So, you
have a lot of bare market rallies where
they take about 20 weeks or so. In 2014,
from the April low to the October low,
it took about 25 weeks. So, when you
look at this cycle and say, "All right,
well, it's been about 16 weeks.
Therefore, this time is different.
That's actually very much ignoring the
bare market rallies we had in the past.
And and I think that's an important
thing for people to realize because, you
know, I've been putting out a lot of
bearish videos for the last 6 months on
Bitcoin. And every time we have a
counter trend rally, a lot of people
come out to dunk. Um, and that's fine.
They have their their their absolute
right to do that. And there's always a
chance that I'm wrong about this being a
bare market rally. But I have to ask
myself, is this time really different?
Or is it just doing the same thing that
it always does, where it draws people
back in over a long enough period of
time to make them think it's different,
but then it ends up actually not being
different. One of the arguments as to
why the four-year cycle is breaking is
that the stock market keeps putting in
new all-time highs. But you could easily
refute that by noting that in 2018, the
stock market actually put in all-time
highs and Bitcoin still went down. And
in fact, it was an early correction in
the stock market that led to Bitcoin's
first drop to 6K. And it was a second
correction in the stock market in the
second half of the midterm year that led
to a subsequent drop by Bitcoin. Now, if
you look at this cycle, you can see that
Bitcoin's first drop corresponded to a
drop in the S&P 500. So perhaps there
will be another drop in the S&P 500 in
the second half of the year, which will
then lead to Bitcoin putting in a low at
the end of the midterm year, which is
when it always does, sometime the fourth
quarter of the midterm year. In 2015, it
actually ended up being January of the
preh havinging year. So again, it's hard
to know exactly, but Q4 of the midterm
year seems like a a fairly likely
outcome.
So there's a lot of reasons why people
will say it. And then another one is the
rally that Bitcoin just had to its 200
day moving average. That feels like a
pretty impressive rally, right? Like it
it does. Bitcoin just had a massive
rally to the 200 day moving average. Now
imagine in 2022 when Bitcoin rallied to
the 200 day moving average and people
were saying that the cycle would
continue and then what happened? It
didn't and the four-year cycle
prevailed. What happened in 2018 after
Bitcoin rallied to the 200 day moving
average and people thought it was
different and that the super cycle would
happen. It didn't and the four-year
cycle prevailed in 2014. What happened
when Bitcoin rallied off even slightly
above the 200 day moving average and
people thought the cycle would continue?
It failed.
So, you'll have to forgive me for for
being objective in this way. I could be
wrong. Like, I absolutely could be
wrong. I don't want to imply that that
this cycle has to follow the prior
cycles, but to pretend like it's
different this time because of some
narrative on Wall Street would be the
same mistake that people fell for last
cycle and the cycle before that. So, I
think it's important to remain objective
and to say, you know what, obviously
things could evolve differently, but at
this point, we don't really have enough
evidence to suggest that that's the
case.
One of the weaker times for Bitcoin in
midterm years is going into the summer
months. That's one of the weaker times.
If you look at stable coin dominance,
stable coin dominance is doing what it
tends to do in midterm years. And almost
exactly what it does in midterm years.
If you look at USDT dominance plus USDC
dominance, what you'll see is that it
just had a weekly close below the 21week
EMA, but then it's rallied back up. Now,
is that different or is it exactly how
it played out in 2022 where it would get
closes just below the bull market
support band? give people a false sense
of security that the cycle would
continue only before the 4-year cycle
ultimately prevailed. Anyways,
so when I looked at the data
in its entirety,
I still see plenty of evidence for why
the four-year cycle will likely prevail.
If you ask me to
basically play devil's advocate and find
reasons for why it won't, I could,
right? I'm not I'm not saying there's
absolutely nothing that would suggest
it. But even in that case, I would still
argue there would be a very likely
chance that Bitcoin would still at least
return back down to 60K sometime later
this year and then sort of confirm it as
support kind of like how it did in 2018.
So the argument would be that you know
what if it plays out like 2018 but yet
you just don't get the crash at the end
of the year. In that case it still held
6K for months. And if you think it's
different because we haven't revisited
60K again we visited 6K in February of
2018. We didn't revisit it until the end
of June.
So February is not even June yet. So
again, I still think there's time that
has to play out before we can really
expect a durable bull market by Bitcoin.
That doesn't mean you have to sit on
your hands and do nothing. There's bull
markets elsewhere. Obviously, the stock
market continues to do well.
International funds continue to do well.
The manufacturing sector does well.
Metals, some of them have still been
doing well. Energy stocks still doing
well. Right? Just because Bitcoin is in
one of these patterns doesn't mean you
have to get very emotional about every
counter trend rally. You can just
recognize that, hey, there's other parts
of the of the markets that can make some
sense. And by having exposure to that,
then it it makes dealing with these
counter trend rallies somewhat bearable
and it doesn't feel like you're just
missing out on everything because
because of this. So, my guess is that
the four-year cycle remains intact
because at this point, I just don't feel
like I have enough evidence to suggest
that it won't. And yes, I might have to
continue to to, you know, deal with with
people that that are are dunking on me
because of of rallies. But I even said
at the beginning of this year and even
late last year that there would be
several counter trend rallies by
Bitcoin, but there was a fool's errand
trying to time them. Even the current
one, if you think about it, a lot of
people thought the bounce would have
happened at around 75K, but instead
Bitcoin sold off all the way down to 60K
before bouncing. So perhaps some of the
resistance we're seeing in here is is
from the people that bought at 75K back
in January thinking that that would be
support.
Now if you look at the ROI after the
cycle peak,
we're holding up a little bit better
this cycle than in prior cycles, but we
are still drifting downward, right? Like
it it it generally is not that
different. In fact, if you look at this
drop compared to say the one from 2014,
it's not that different. In fact, as
measured from the high at this point in
2014,
not as measured from the high, as
measured from the yearly open, because
there was a big drop in late 2013, but
as measured from the yearly open,
Bitcoin back then was down was at 0.54.
We're currently at 62. It's not really
that different. And if this lines up,
then the next low could be around the
October time frame,
maybe a local low in June, uh, and then
another low in October. So, we'll just
have to wait and see. You know, I know
everyone's kind of yelling at each other
on Twitter about what's going to
actually happen. But the point is is the
evidence is there. There's still enough
evidence to suggest that the four-year
cycle is not dead. And if we look back
on this cycle in in a few years, could
we really say it was different in the
sense of when Bitcoin topped? Because it
topped when it always does at the end of
the post-h having year. And if it
bottoms when it always does at the end
of the midterm year, then we'll look
back and be like, "All right, people
just spend all of that midterm year
fading the four-year cycle, but it ended
up working out anyways." Now, it raises
another question. Will the 4-year cycle
last forever? Probably not. Okay, it
will probably break at some point and
then it might start working again, you
know, after that. At some point, the
four-year cycle will likely break, but
my point is this. You're probably going
to do better in the markets assuming it
doesn't break and being right all those
times. anyone who assumed it was right
at the end of 2025
did themselves a favor, you know, and I
think the people that are the most
outspoken about it being broken are the
ones that faded it back in late 2025 and
were calling for much higher prices. So,
that's not entirely true, but I think a
majority of the people that are are
completely
unopen to the bare market continuing
were the same ones that told you it
wouldn't happen in the first place. So,
let's see how it plays out for the rest
of this year. If it plays out, how it
historically has, then it means there
likely will be another drop by Bitcoin
um as we go into the summer months,
potentially finding a low sometime in
the fourth quarter. My guess is October,
but it doesn't have to be. That would be
my guess. And we will see. If you look
at the data, there's still plenty of
data that suggests the four-year cycle
is intact. And I think a lot of the
people that are saying it's not intact
are kind of ignoring what's actually
happened. Bitcoin topped when it always
tops.
Why Why are we over complicating it when
all the data would suggest, maybe not
all of it, but most of it would still
suggest that the bare market could in
fact continue? So, I believe the
four-year cycle is still alive
and that saying it is dead is actually
ignoring a majority of the data. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and again, check out the
sale on into the cryptoverse premium at
into the cryptoverse.com. We do have the
direct access option as well if you guys
would like that. But also check out
benjaminc.com.
We've been putting out a lot of reports
over there. We're going to be putting
out some more soon, so make sure you
check that out. Links in the description
below. Thank you guys for tuning in. And
I will see you next time. Bye.